Walk back.
I've left for you the solution for the selection sort now I'm not going to be going one by one to each
sorting algorithm because it does take a lot of time.
I don't want to bore you and lose you because there's so many more exciting things happening throughout
the next couple of videos so I'll leave this for you to see how it works.
It's not that much different from bubble sort.
We see that with selection sort.
We're setting the current index as the minimum.
So the very first item in the array becomes the minimum.
But when we loop through the rest of the list we want to update the minimum.
If the current is lower than what we had previously So what we had here where we initially set the first
item in the array ninety nine as the minimum.
As soon as we get to four forty four we're going to say oh 44 is less than ninety nine.
Let's update the minimum so that index where 44 is is now the minimum.
And we're going to swap out those numbers just like we saw in the animation and it also is a really
well-documented thing on the Internet.
For example if you are a Python developer you can just type in Python selection sort and you'll find
that yeah you can find how selection sorts it's implemented in Python and you can run the program as
well.
So depending on your language you can usually click on the first or second link and show you how the
algorithm is implemented.
As you can see here we have two nested for loops looping through the entire array.
So it's all over and square for the rest of the sorting algorithms.
I will have the code provided for you so you can play with it and interact with it.
You see that the sorting works as expected but it can also search for your own language.
To find the sorting algorithm.
So you understand it on a deeper level.
Let's talk about the next sorting algorithm in the video coming up.